---
layout: page
title: RESEARCH PAPER REPORT
---

###GENTRIFICATION, ABANDONMENT, AND DISPLACEMENT: CONNECTIONS, CAUSES, AND POLICY RESPONSES IN NEW YORK CITY\


In the two parts (one and five), the research explores the interplay between displacement, abandonment, and gentrification. The paper then explores how one would combat this using government policy to build a more sustainable and economically equitable neighborhood. Abandonment and gentrification are considered opposites, but with an eye to sociocultural context their entanglement becomes clear. In a gross oversimplification those who are lower income tend to have to abandon their home either for financial, quality of life reasons, or both. This largely happens because gentrification is blanketly considered good and there is a general lack of clarity when looking at where economic gains go and where economic loses come from. Assuming both the upper and lower classes have an equal benefit and detriment is a highly inaccurate model. Of course through policy primarily generated through the lens of private industry being the panacea for urban decline people who have lower income take on all the risk and side effects while those in the upper class take on the profit. If the government took more control of how neighborhoods were renewed, they could create businesses of and for the community while adding economic value. Personally I completely agree with this piece. The shock was that this book was published in 1985 and it has been 34 years with no one implementing the solution presented. Although the language of the book could have used more rhetoric specifically surrounding racialized communities, all the suggestions given for combating this predatory gentrification seemed exactly like the model that is needed in order to handle renewal in less exploitative and racist ways.\\
Originally the idea for CommUnity was built around creating a movement to push legislative change, but with little information around actually designing policy to work for people living in the area almost nothing in the original design could reflect that accurately. In the latest iteration, the design has taken on a form that is more geared towards causing disruptions for organizers to take advantage of. However with the inclusion of this paper, I feel that the project instead of being reworked can take on another iteration. One of the main problems laid out by the paper seems to be the lack of synergy between the local neighborhood government and the neighborhood itself. Often the people who create the zoning laws are appointed and have solely private interests in mind. Normally in design we have seen products produced appeal to and work with the consumer in some critical way. By centering the community as the “consumer” for this “product” of urban development completely changes this “product” on its head. I am not sure if the current project reflects this and thus does not improve upon it. With this in mind, perhaps the art aspect should be switched for a piece about local politicians and their role in gentrification. Perhaps the public knowledge and embarrassment of the politicians decisions will help spur them into more restorative action. 

