---
layout: post
title: Project Proposal
---


## Motivation

You are walking or driving down the street and then you see something curious, a Starbucks appears. You had heard something about them building one not too long ago, but you never stopped to really check it out. Now it’s brand new. You, being curious of course decide to check it out, and walk in to see the white Barista greet you. “Hello honey,” she says. You are really not sure why, but it seemed a little off, the emphasis on the H of honey almost seemed– hostile? Whatever. You leave with your sweet coffee beverage. Over the course of the next few years you see a Top Golf, 2 more Starbucks pop up. Your beloved Patty Place closes and is replaced by Zak the Baker. Suddenly the people you see in the streets seem less like you. White people in their distressed jeans, buns, and other unfamiliar wear begin, invading the streets.

  

## The Problem

Gentrification is a process that starts slow, slow enough many people have a hard time perceiving it, and when it is finished people have a hard time recognizing what was ever there before. To those who recognize the signs it can feel like you are alone in your assessment of the city. It can seem like that you are alone in recognizing the telltale signs of gentrification. Even if you wanted to do or change something it can be hard to figure out how and how to organize with other like-minded people around you. There is a popular idea that people that live in low-income cities are apathetic and low-information. This is not true as people tend to recognize what is going on around the spaces they live. However, they can sometimes have a difficult time articulating this in a way that media likes due to the difficulty in aggregating this kind of information into one place for a presentation. Other times bad actors will go out of their way to use recognition to mislead people about the very land they reside on. 

  
  
  

## The Solution

It would be a boon to have information regarding the changes in a community available to residents and visitors. We want to arm these people who recognize negative changes being made in their communities around with concrete data that shows how their community has been changed over time to push out Black and Brown people. We want people to be able to recognize these patterns over a large geographic area. We want people to be able to see the changes in the land they are visiting and how they may contribute to certain issues. Finally, before the area becomes unrecognizable, we want to connect people who want to organize with each other before something like this occurs. In giving people the tools of information and organization hopefully this greases the wheels around the protection of one's homeland. 
